because it sounds like you've really got
this this this sales call or discovery
part of the sales call nailed down we
want to know more about this
it is my favorite part of the sales
process because i mean typically what
we're doing we have a detailed discovery
called decide if we're a good fit and if
we are we might do a presentation or we
might do a paid audit or we might might
do some kind of proposal whatever that
next step is depending as within all of
us each project each solution is going
to be a bit different
but usually we want to know once we've
kind of agreed
agreed those um terms on the upfront
contract um side of things then we'd
we'd really
one of my favorite questions depending
on the type of lead is kind of
what's first of all what's actually
prompted you to reach out to us like for
example
why didn't you go with if you know other
companies in your sector why didn't you
reach out to x or why didn't you reach
out to y company
and then they might just say look
because i saw you on linkedin or
you you called me or i saw your ad and
then if it wasn't inboundly then i'll
always say well that's great i see ads
pop up all the time what was it
specifically about our offer that
prompted you to take the time to give us
a call or fill out our inquiry form
and then they'll give you a bit more
detail so in our case they might say
look i really like some of your work or
i really like this review and it just
gives you a little golden nugget that
might come up um as used later in the
sales process perhaps when you're doing
a picture or demo whatever it may be
um
and then
there's a bunch of things that you need
to kind of cover when you're doing
discovery so of course you need to
kind of say look
what is what talk about kind of
why have you reached out to us today or
why are we having this conversation
take the time to learn about their
business
if it is a product or service that
you're offering you want to dive into
deep deep about learning how their
business operates
kind of the product or service they're
offering and things like the average
order values around that so you can
understand even if your product or
service is going to make sense for them
and even taking the time to understand
profit margins if they are doing that
kind of stuff
um
and then
a crucial thing is understanding the
trigger event
so once you've understand took the time
to understand what they do how they do
it um
what you want to ask why they want to do
that now so
look john what's what's made you want to
do this now why not three months ago why
not six months in the future why do we
have to have this conversation now and
that's quite a useful point so you can
actually
scale the urgency of their need
because some people might just say oh i
was just considering my options
i was just thinking about this and that
should usually
send alarm bells because you can see
that there's no real urgency whereas if
they say look
let's say you're offering some kind of
sas
software as a service solution maybe
you're offering like a crm product
whatever and they just say
rcm is really frustrating because we
have to manually trans uh import
everything from gmail for every new
contact that comes in or maybe they say
our head of crms just left us in the
lurch and we're really stuck and that's
great then you can just start digging
right one of the best parts about
discovery is just digging deeper then
you can ask things like
why is that an issue and they might say
well
we're we're five grand down because our
sales team are having to spend days
kind of manually inputting all this data
and you know why is that an issue
with 10k already below our target for
the month and if we do this again for
three months then our chief revenue
office is going to be on my back and
then basically a big part of discovery
is to keep digging until you get to the
the biggest part of the problem so
working out that what we call a trigger
event of why they need to do it now
understanding the importance of why they
have to do it
and
kind of going along the process if
you've kind of determined this is
something you can help them out with
understanding things like their timeline
when do they want to get the rest
solution in place
um understanding things like who's
actually involved in the process so if
you've gone through all these steps and
you've kind of realized this i'm going
to fit you've realized they've got a
sensible timeline and you've taken the
time to understand things like
budget so have they actually got the
money in place to do business with you
and a lot of people say you shouldn't
bring up money on the first call but i
completely disagree um ultimately if
they don't have the cash to do business
with you you're wasting their time and
yours
and so once you've kind of nailed down a
few points and bits and pieces about
their problem
um
and their issues etc
you can do that and what i should have
added is one of my favorite questions to
ask before you get to budget which i
i've missed is
really good if you're offering kind of a
solution that kind of drives results
over time look where do we need to get
to
in say 12 months time for you to say
working with sam working with webchoice
was an excellent move this is a question
i stole from benjamin dennehy works a
treat because then you get people to
actually visualize the future
and if they if they've got a clear
answer like look we want to get x amount
of revenue or we want to get to position
where i can hire two more staff
then you can see they're serious about
it whereas if they are not too sure and
they can't really give you anything
that's a little bit again alarm bells
because they've not really thought about
where
their urgency for the solution they
can't really see the the brighter green
future in 12 months so that that
question can really give you some good
intel and once you've nailed all these
points you can say look based against
fixing problem x getting to this
timeline solving these issues what have
you allocated as a budget towards it um
if they say look i haven't even thought
about a budget when i believe you really
should bring up budget now so in my case
i might say look typically
prospects for these kind of issues spend
between x and y
can you see yourself falling within that
or is that way off the mark
if they say it's way off the mark
then
you can say well
we should probably end this conversation
now right whereas if they say they might
battle against you and they might
convince you to kind of do business with
them great
whereas they might say
yeah that kind of works then you can
carry on the conversation
and probably wrap up depending on how
long your discovery call is um just by
finding out who else is involved in the
project so
as well as yourself john who else do we
need on the next call or who do we need
to get involved in our second discovery
call or our presentation call or
proposal call depending on the sales
process so those are just a few points i
tend to bring up in discovery appreciate
that everyone's product or service is
going to be slightly different depending
on what you do and how transactional how
long a sales cycle you've got